doc/md: document project files (#810)
ariga/atlas: doc/md/cli/projects.md

---
title: Project Structure
id: projects
slug: /cli/projects
---

> ### Atlas Project Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Project Files
```

> Project files provide a convenient way to describe and work with different
> environments which are managed using Atlas.  A project file is a file named

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project files provide a convenient way to describe and interact with multiple
environments when working with Atlas. A project file is a file named
```

Not sure it's better, but I like it

> `atlas.hcl` which is located at the root of the project and contains one or 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`atlas.hcl` which is located at the root of the project and contains one or more
```

> `atlas.hcl` which is located at the root of the project and contains one or 
> `env` blocks. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`atlas.hcl` and contains one or more `env` blocks. For example:
```

The location does not really matter.

```hcl
// Define an environment named "local"
env "local" {
  // Declare where the schema definition file resides.
  src = "./schema/project.hcl"
  
  // Define the URL of the database which is managed in
  // this environment.
  url = "mysql://localhost:3306"
  
  // Define the URL of the Dev Database for this environment
  // See: https://atlasgo.io/dev-database
  dev = "mysql://localhost:3307"
  
  // The schemas in the database that are managed by Atlas.
  schemas = ["users", "admin"]
}

env "dev" {
  // ... a different env
}
```

Once defined, a project's environment can be worked against using the `--env` flag. 
For example:

```shell

> $ atlas schema apply --env local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
atlas schema apply --env local
```
We have a copy button.

Reviewer: I see now that it exists in other places. I'll send a patch to fix it in all other places.
